you come to sunny california
and go for a hike in the santa lucia
mountains there
you have a strange unpleasant feeling as
if
someone's watching you you look around
but don't see a single soul that's when
you glance at the tops of distant
mountains in front of you
and your heart skips a beat up on the
peaks
you can see the outline of a giant
humanoid figure
arms stretched out with a magnificent
full rainbow circling it
this mysterious figure is dressed in all
black
you can't make out any facial
expressions or detail
but you can see it moving then it
vanishes
right before your eyes congrats you've
just witnessed the dark watchers
a phenomenon that's been terrifying
hikers in the california mountains
for over 300 years even now scientists
can't give an
exact explanation for this mysterious
appearance
what we do know is it's completely
natural uh
probably one theory claims that there
are no silhouettes at all
the human brain just thinks up images
created by shadows the clouds cast on
the mountains
over the centuries people share stories
about this legend
and their minds begin to show it
building recognizable images
the same can happen to you like when you
see the contours of a human
face on a burnt piece of toast or the
shape of a dog in a passing cloud
the most accepted scientific explanation
is what's called a brock inspector
it's when sunlight gets bent by drops of
fog or clouds
that explains the rainbow surrounding
these figures
as for the shadow it's only your own
being stretched and projected on the
mountains before you
after all these figures usually show up
when the sun
is behind the witness natural or not
the vanishing mysterious figure scared
the wits out of you so
you head east and find yourself in the
desert the blazing sun beats down on
your back
there's nothing for hundreds of miles
around hard to believe this dry
lifeless plane was once the bottom of a
lake
you notice a long trail in the sand as
if someone was pushing or pulling
something really heavy across the ground
you follow the strange trail
and at the end you find a single large
stone
but why would anyone drag a heavy rock
across the middle of the desert
but nothing touched the stone it moved
by itself
it's a phenomenon called sailing stones
every winter
ice covers the ground here when a strong
enough wind blows
the stone starts to glide across the
slippery surface
once the ice melts all that's left is a
winding trail
behind a single lonesome rock
well for some relief from the scorching
california sun we head to antarctica
snow ice and more blinding sun yep it's
a desert too
the light is almost blinding you squint
and off in the distance
you see something red sticking out from
all the surrounding endless white
as you get closer you realize it's a
waterfall
an ominous red cascade flowing from the
glacier
splashes fly in all directions and stain
the white snow
don't worry these so-called blood falls
are nothing of the sort
millions of years ago i wasn't around
that a glacier formed over a pond and
blocked access to sunlight heat and
oxygen
then the pond managed to break through
the glacier with a little trickle of
water
when such salty water with high levels
of iron meets oxygen
it creates that scarlet rust color this
is the only waterfall of its kind in the
world
now in the town of taos new mexico
locals hear a strange hum
every day but not all of them for some
reason only about two percent of the
residents can hear the sound
some theories proposed it's caused by
the location's unusual acoustics
others put it down to some strange
auditory hallucination
or even something more sinister
unexplainable sounds happen on other
worlds as well
in 2020 the mars rover recorded a
strange hum
coming from the red planet it's a quiet
continuous drone that sometimes
fluctuates because of mars quakes
back on earth we head to the warm
rainforests of southeast asia
you see a tree that looks as if someone
poured paint all over it
but the rainbow eucalyptus was painted
by nature
its unusual bark changes colors over
time like a kaleidoscope
it starts off as a bright green shade
then red
orange purple and finely brown then
the colorful cycle starts again one of
the biggest mysteries of nature is ball
lightning it's a glowing blue orange or
yellow sphere that appears during a
thunderstorm
many witnesses say they hear a hissing
sound and detect a strong odor with it
the first mention of ball lightning
described it breaking through a window
and disappearing
as with any mystery scientists can't
explain the exact cause
a popular theory is that ordinary
lightning strikes the
ground and causes a reaction between
oxygen and vaporized soil elements
ball lightning often occurs during
earthquakes when it usually takes the
form of a blue flame coming out of the
ground
the ball lightning phenomenon happens
all over the world
but so far no one's been able to snap a
picture of it
there's an extremely unusual volcano in
java
if you go there at night you'll see an
electric blue flame burning from the
ground
along with oozing bright blue lava it's
incredibly hot
but that's not actually lava all this
unusual blue
is sulfur gas escaping from crevices in
the volcano
and catching on fire it also condenses
into a liquid form
and looks like blue lava flowing down
as soon as you come to the nabib desert
you immediately notice
something very strange sprinkled among
the dry grasslands are almost perfect
circles of dirt
where nothing grows these massive polka
dots are called
fairy circles and you guessed it nobody
really knows what causes them
the likely culprit is termites eating
the grass around their underground
colony
well that could explain the circles
differing sizes
the bugs continue to eat as the colony
expands outwards
but they stop before they encroach on a
neighboring colony
the patches where you do see grass show
a sort of boundary
separating different termite populations
or so goes the theory
heading down under to australia's lake
hillier
your eyes don't deceive you yes that
lake is
bubble gum pink and is perfectly safe to
swim in
the giant pink puddle is a salt lake and
it's not the only one of its kind in the
world
salt lakes are pink because of a kind of
algae and other microorganisms living in
them
they produce a red pigment to protect
themselves from the sun
what's unique about lake hillier though
is the water is still
pink even if you scoop it up into a
glass and it remains bright pink
all year round the same can't be said
about other pink lakes
japan is home to one of the most famous
active volcanoes in the world
it's special because it creates an
incredible natural phenomenon
a dirty thunderstorm the volcano
regularly spews out a black cloud of
smoke ash
and lightning during an ordinary storm
ice crystals collide with each other
and cause discharge creating lightning
in a dirty thunderstorm
particles of volcanic ash collide
instead of eyes
a peaceful night on the beach the waves
wash up on the shore
and glow neon blue but it's not the
water that's glowing
it's the creatures living in it this
phenomenon is called bioluminescence
plankton and algae release this glow
when waves disturb them
some fish squid and crustaceans can emit
neon light as well
to lure prey no time to walk along the
shore enjoying the natural light show
hurry we're heading out to open sea
there's no storm or wind at all
which is why it's so surprising when you
see a massive wave
five stories high suddenly sweep across
the calm waters
it nearly overturns your boat but just
as soon as it arrives
it vanishes in an instant what was
that this unpredictable and still
unexplained danger
is called a rogue wave one theory of how
they
form is from the sea surface
encountering a strong headwind
but remember you didn't feel any wind
blowing
theory number two and the most accepted
one different waves combined to form
one large one it's something called
kinetic vampirism
under certain natural conditions waves
accumulate and exchange kinetic energy
among all the waves there will be one
that absorbs the energy from the others
like a vampire when a lot of energy is
accumulated
it releases itself in the form of a
giant wave